If we look at the cleanest formulation of that,
of looking at a problem from different perspective,
you are also involved with the international mathematics Olympian, which takes,
uh, small, clean, uh,
problems that are really hard.
But once you look at them differently can become easy.
But that little jump of innovation is a, is, uh, is,
is the entire trick. So maybe at the high level, can you say,
what is the international mathematical Olympian? Sure.
So this is, uh, uh, the competition for people who aren't yet in college, uh,
math competition, which is the most prestigious one in the entire world.
It's the Olympics of mathematics. Uh,
but only for people who aren't yet in college. Now,
the kinds of questions that they ask you to do are not computational.
Usually you're not supposed to find that the answer is 42. <laugh> right.
Instead, you're supposed to explain why something is true. Yes. And the, the,
the problem is that at the beginning, when you look at each of the questions,
first of all, you have four and a half hours to solve three questions,
and this is one day. And then you have a second day,
which is four and a half hours, three questions.
But when you look at the questions, they're all asking you,
explain why the following thing is true, which you've never seen before.
And by the way, even though there are six questions,
if you solve any one of them, you're a genius and you get an honorable mention.
So this is, this is hard, really hard problem. So really.
What about, is it one person? Is it a team? Ah.
So it's, each country can send six people.
And the score of the country is actually unofficial.
There's not an official country versus country system.
Although everyone just adds up the point scores of the six people and they say,
well, now, which country, uh, stacked up where?
Yeah. So be as a side comment, I should say that, um,
there's a bunch of countries, including the former Soviet union and Russia, uh,
where I grew up where this is one of the most
important competitions that the country participates in.
Like it was a source of pride for a lot of the country. You,
you look at the Olympic sports, like, uh, wrestling, weight, lifting,
there's certain sports and hockey that Russia
and the Soviet union truly took pride in.
And actually the mathematical Olympia,
it was one of them for many years is still one of them. And that's kind of fast,
Cindy. We don't think about it this way in, in the United States.
Maybe you can correct me if I'm wrong,
but it's not nearly as popular in the United States in terms of
its integration into the culture, into, uh,
just basic conversation into the pride. Like, you know,
if you win an Olympic gold medal or if you win the super bowl,
walk around proud.
I think that was the case with the mathematical Olympian in Russia. Not,
not as much the case in the United States. I think. So.
I just wanna give that a little aside because beating anybody from Russia from
the Eastern Republic or from China is very, very difficult there.
Like if I remember correctly, you know, there's people,
this was a multi-year training process.
They train hard and this is,
this is everything that they're focused on. My, uh, my dad was,
was, uh, was a participant in this and it's, I mean, it's, uh,
it's as serious as Olympic sports, you think about like gymnastics,
like young athletes participating gymnastics is, is as serious as that,
if not more serious. So I just wanna give that a little bit of context,
cause we're talking about serious high level math.
<laugh> athletics almost here you.
Yeah. And actually, I also think that it made sense, uh,
from the Soviet union's perspective,
because if you look at what these people do eventually,
even though let's look at the SSRS Oly, uh, international math Olympia record,
even though they, I say,
even though they won a lot of awards at the high school thing,
many of them went on to do credible things in research mathematics or research
other things,
and that's showing the generalization generalizability of what they were working
on because ultimately we're just playing with
ideas of how to prove things mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And if you get pretty good at inventing creative ways to turn problems of
part, split them apart, observe neat ways to, um,
turn messy things into simple crystals. Well,
if you're gonna try to solve any real problem in the real world,
that could be a really handy tool too. So I don't think it was a bad investment.
I, I think it clearly it worked well for Soviet union.